deep politics in the death of JFK there
is a great deal of information in this
book that is new but there's also a
great deal that I would say is
reanalyzed
you've broaden the vision of people
considering JFK to consider something
else that there was something underlying
what happened with say let's start with
to the Rosenbergs particularly Ethel
Rosenberg and then the McCarthy era and
then we got to the assassinations and we
also got into the into the Watergate
scandal mmm contra gate we talked about
the Mafia you have developed a new
vision I think that day you would call
deep politics that links this all
together and developed I guess or
encouraged a new way of thinking about
the JFK assassination which is not to
simply try and figure out who did it and
when they did it but to talk about the
why and what was going on underneath and
what was the structural connection in
this culture in the political system yes
so I want you to start by before we even
get into any of the the specific facts
although I know you will mention some I
want you to talk remind people what you
meant by para politics and now what your
definition would be of deep politics
because this is going to be coming up
again and again over the next hour and a
half or two hours I think this is
helpful to begin with the question of
definitions and it's a way of also
showing the difference in what I'm doing
now and what I did 20 years ago
devoted KPFA listeners have listened to
me for a long time on these subjects
when I talked about para taught politics
I was talking I defined it in fact in
the war conspiracy as a system or
process of politics in which
responsibility is consciously diminished
I mean covert operations would be a good
example you you do it but you try to
make it appear that it's not you that's
doing it's someone else that's doing it
so which it
focused very much para politics on the
activity of the CIA and government other
government agencies like the FBI and
Army Intelligence no so are you saying
para politics because the to sound a
little bit of likes this is PA RA
politics we're talking about right and I
think my own researches were carrying me
beyond para politics before I realized
that the the last chapter in the war
conspiracy which was like the
introduction to so much of what I've
done since was looking at the
relationship between the CIA and the
drug traffic in the Far East and how the
interaction between the two was a factor
in this inexorable pushing of the United
States towards ever and ever greater
involvement in Southeast Asia a push
that was not so much coming out of the
White House as it was out of the
woodwork so to speak now the drug
traffic cannot be reduced to an
invention of the CIA it's something that
was there long before there was a CIA it
has its own dynamics you say this about
organized crime in general that even if
it's convenient for wealthy corporations
to know there's a mafia down there
corrupting civil Hall City Hall because
although the Mafia may have quite
different reasons for corrupting City
Hall once City Hall is corrupted
everybody benefits in the great
capitalist pot lash where the government
is used to help all kinds of interests
but you cannot reduce organized crime to
some kind of instrumentality of of the
corporations they are their own reality
so this is where I come up with the
notion of deep politics that our
political system is and has been as far
back as I've been able to trace it one
in which the acknowledged
processes the things that I read about
when I was a student of political
science in the university have always
rested on a deeper system of
relationships which cannot be so
recognized and in fact are repressed and
about which every one of us including
the two of us in this room are in a
constant system of denial that is to say
we don't we cannot fully open up our
mind to the extent to which this deep
political level is conditioning politics
all along because that's too
uncomfortable to the illusion that we
like to live in which is weird in a
democracy and if we go out and work hard
in the next election we can somehow
build towards the political system that
we desire my whole first chapter in
defining deep politics goes immediately
into the amount of denial that we are
all in the the establishment likes to
give a psychological dimension and so do
the establish what I call the
establishment lift refer to the
psychological aspects of the mentalities
that go into looking at the Kennedy
assassination and say with some
justification that they have a paranoid
streak and so on but there's also a
psychological dimension to the
mainstream whether it's the New York
Times or whether it's Coburn in the
nation who say that there wasn't a
conspiracy and even if there were
conspiracies have nothing to do with our
political system there's a surprising
degree of unanimity here between the
nation and the New York Times and the
common denominator is repressing the
idea that dark events like plotted
assassinations really are integral to
the structure of the politics of this
nation the the nation magazine sets up
an
rational structuralist analysis and the
conspiratorial lists who are trying to
see influence on our politics from
events like assassinations what I trying
to isolate the so called main system
from the darker side of the political
system which you document in various
books has been operating for many many
years continuous continuously right and
it's not really so much that I come up
with a hypothesis that there is a
connection between say the Kennedy and
assassination and Watergate it was
really working backwards from the
evidence that I'd already produced a
manuscript in 1971 that focused on the
activities of somebody called either
Frank Fiorina ng or Frank Sturgis so
that I had a very special take on the
Watergate break-in in 1972 when Frank
Sturgis was one of the four people
photographed on page one of the New York
Times it has been a question of
explaining that relationship and the
explanation I have now makes Frank
Sturgis a pretty minor figure really
he's just one of the many many ways in
which there is a kind of Melia or area
where what I call a gray zone sometimes
where intelligence agencies and
organized crime overlap after all
they're both involved in rather similar
activities so it isn't it isn't all that
surprising except that the CIA is
supposed to commit its crimes in other
countries and not in this one I'm
suggesting that once we take a better
look at the deep politics of our country
you cannot compartmentalize the CIA in
one area and organized crime in another
area
they are both manifestations of the way
business is frequently done on the on
the criminal level on the government
level and also I keep coming back to
this in my book on
corporate level and this is what you
mean by the deep political politics or
deep politics this link right really you
have to say the deep political economy
of our country because it would be very
wrong to leave the corporations out of
this picture and I think I'm probably
one of the first people I even aroused a
certain amount of derision at me because
I say that we have to look not only at
the little groups that were nipped
manipulating or controlling Oswald when
he was in New Orleans but look at their
relationship to the two big banana
companies United Fruit and standard
fruit who normally had resorted to gangs
and organized crime to control the
banana so called banana republics of
Central America perhaps a good way now
to enter the path of your book and even
before I ask some of these big questions
about the links between these various
events if you will that have happened
through the years I want to perhaps you
can talk deep politics in terms of the
Kennedy assassination and perhaps work
talk about both the to national security
memorandum and the denial of the
memorandum what happened to Kennedy and
to Kennedy policy before the
assassination and after the
assassination yes unfortunately in my
book I only do this with respect to
Vietnam I should have also I have yes
okay I have written about Kennedy's
policies in Cuba that has become such a
confused area now Vietnam being all just
about is confused
I'm very sorry to fire myself on a
different side from no entrace key on
this issue trying to put it as simply as
possible and it's unfortunately a bit
misleading to put it simply
there was Kennedy's last national
security action memorandum on Vietnam
was NASM 263 on October the 11th and
talked about implementing a plan and
here both words implementation and plan
not an intention but a plan being
implemented to withdraw a thousand
troops by the end of 1963 with a view of
withdrawing the bulk of them by 1965 in
other words it was the first step in a
plan which was deliberately time to take
place after the 1964 elections what we
might call a plan for graduated
withdrawal phased withdrawal from
Vietnam Johnson's first national
security action memorandum on any
subject was NASM 273 dated November 26th
but approved on November 24th which is
to say two days after me October 26th no
November the assassination was November
22nd this document was approved on
November 24th and it's dated November
26th and it puts into motion what were
originally planning for graduated
escalation so we we have one nasan from
the last one from kennedy is for phased
or graduated a gradual withdrawal from
Vietnam and the first one from Johnson
is for gradual graduated escalation in
Vietnam what is the relationship between
the two documents it's difficult to talk
about it in simple terms because
Johnson's NASA addressed the issue of
withdrawal and reasserted the goals of a
public statement that had been made nine
days before Kennedy's nessam
which said I talked about a public
publicly about an intention to do this
but we have to distinguish in our minds
between an intention and the
implementation of a plan and what I'm
saying in my book is that although
Kennedy faced a great many Hawks inside
his administration who were reluctant to
do this he had given a go ahead to the
doves who wanted there were of whom
there were very few and the chief of
whom was probably his own brother who
wanted to cut their losses and get out
now whether or not it looked as if we
were going to win and I don't want to
demonize the Johnson memorandum because
I'm sure that Johnson did not intend to
have the war which we ultimately had
there was probably a consensus in both
among doves and hawks at this time that
to put us ground troops into Vietnam
would be a bad thing
and nasan 273 certainly didn't envisage
that but what nessam 273 explicitly did
do was to envisage that the united
states itself would become involved in a
war against north vietnam which would
begin by being covert and did begin by
being covert but would become more and
more over the the planning involved
which by the way was already on paper
inside the Pentagon envisaged things
like the so-called 34a ops which were
patrol boats shooting off torpedoes at
the North Vietnamese coastline and also
elint missions us destroyers seeing how
the North Vietnamese responded to this
these gradually escalating operations
led to the so-called Tonkin Gulf
incidents in August 1964 which too
extension purposes was the beginning of
the shooting war between the United
States and Vietnam as opposed to the
covert war which the United States had
been running through the South
Vietnamese under Kennedy and the phony
excuse that the major phony excuse that
Johnson used to escalate to involve us
in right / right yes talking with Peter
Dale Scott he is the author of politics
new book and it's called the politics
and the death of JFK and we're talking
about the assassination of JFK but we're
talking about a system of deep political
economic action that has been happening
in this country according to Peter Dale
Scott consistently you know we you talk
about these memorandums and it was
suggested in Oliver Stone's film which
showed these memorandums for about six
six seconds and you make an interesting
parallel about the six seconds that was
in Dallas and it's suggested that this
it's been suggested I guess by you and I
guess by John Newman and a very well
documented book that this may well have
been the policy by Kennedy that both got
him in trouble with all the various
players in the deep political system if
you will and that may have led to his
assassination could I be very clear
about that please do neither John Newman
nor I neither of us are saying that this
is why President Kennedy was
assassinated we are only saying they're
not speak for myself here that there was
enormous
tension conflict within the system on
this issue the problem is that there are
so many possible motives for
assassinating the president
there was also Bobby Kennedy's campaign
against organized crime and Kennedy's
policies on Cuba suffered from the same
kind of disease that did his policies in
Vietnam
in both areas he had a way of proceeding
that allowed both hawks and doves to
think that they had a hope within his
administration he wasn't clearly on one
side or the other until this final
determination in Vietnam so and I
actually believe that if we did know why
Kennedy was killed it would almost
certainly involve a coalition of diverse
groups with diverse motives of which
Vietnam may very well have been won but
I have no way of demonstrating that it
would have been one of the motives just
as I have no way of demonstrating that
Kennedy would have withdrawn this is
another false issue that's come up which
I can't address I am simply saying that
he had implemented a plan to withdraw
and that oh and let's be clear about
this that this was quietly annulled by
Johnson's NASM 273 even while it was
using the form the formula of re
asserting the intention of withdrawal
and those are the facts that we have to
begin to deal with when we start looking
as I do do in this book at the very odd
behavior of the military and
particularly military intelligence with
respect to the assassination you could
argue that it's very suspicious that you
had army intelligence agents right there
in Dealey Plaza who ended up right
inside the Texas schoolbook depository
at the time that it was sealed off but
of course this doesn't prove anything
about whether or not Vietnam was a
motive for the assassination boy that's
interesting we're not going to get into
this now but in a very revealing new
series that cannot I think it was the
Memphis appeal they documented the fact
that Martin Luther King was surveilled
by military intelligence from the time
he was in college to the fact that they
were on the ground the day within
hundreds of yards of where he was killed
that's extremely relevant
in my book I also note that I me
intelligence had a file on sirhan sirhan
the assassins of support supposed
assassin of Robert Kennedy probably
predating Robert Kennedy's assassination
okay I want to ask you a big question
here and give you some time to respond
to it and I think this will get us into
the heart of the matter although we've
been there already
you talked before about there would be
you would think that there would be a or
feel that there would be a coalition of
diverse groups or you've documented that
there is a good deal of information that
suggests that there would be a coalition
of diverse groups that would want
Kennedy dead like a lot of people had a
lot of reasons to want to get rid of him
I want to I want you to talk about what
those different groups would be and what
the reasons would be for wanting Kennedy
to dead
does this bring in organized crime and
drug wars and the use of drugs by
organized crime to make money and by the
CIA to finance operations all of these
differed over diverse groups that we're
talking about in terms of wanting JFK
dead and why would they want him dead
well I have a chapter on the coalition's
plural against the Kennedys in which I
begin by talking about all those people
connected with the Teamsters not so much
not just people like Jimmy Hoffa himself
but very much those people ranging from
the murchison family to pure organized
crime groups who were being given very
liberal sources of capital in the form
of loans from the central states
Teamsters pension fund which many of
these loans never being paid off at all
and of course Bobby Kennedy was going
right after Jimmy
and in fact the trial of Jimmy Hoffa and
the Warren Commission investigation of
the Kennedy assassination both took
place in 1964 and I argue them yet
another chapter that they influenced
each other and that a key witness in the
Hoffa trial down in Tennessee Parton
many people were telling the FBI all
through this period that he was somehow
involved with the Kennedy assassination
or with the man called David Ferrie who
other people said was involved with the
Kennedy assassination and that that one
of the reasons that Bobby Kennedy didn't
want to get into conspiracy theories
about his brother's death is that this
would have opened up the door on these
allegations which I think were false
allegations against he was still the
Attorney General and Parton was his key
witness in the case and the key case
against Hoffa so that's one big area and
then I talked a bit about a lobbyist
called Irving Davidson who represented a
number of the people who were in these
in these coalition's the Murchison's
in particular offshore interests the
government of Nicaragua is somehow drawn
into this case one of their agents
having supplied a false but rather
important significant story that Oswald
had been hired in the Cuban embassy in
Mexico City to kill the president we
have to understand that the creating of
a false KGB or Cuban plot the appearance
of this although it had no grounding in
reality it had a lot of plausible
backing in government files at the time
the assassination occurred Rada this had
been put in their pre assassination
and so that the a very real motive for
the government saying that Oswald acted
alone was to get the nuclear airforce
back on the ground because we were in a
red alert right after President Kennedy
was killed and saying heads in the
government did not want to go to war
against this Soviet Union a lot of
insane heads and the government did want
to go to war and even more wanted very
very vigorously and actively for about
seven or eight weeks after the
assassination to retaliate against Cuba
and I believe that this is what
persuaded Earl Warren and some other
people to go along with this Warren
Commission notion which by into in terms
of the way it was set up without any
investigatory powers
I really had very little alternative but
to believe the agencies who were feeding
it intelligence and the FBI in
particular was committed to the idea
that all's will did it and did it alone
as early is certainly three days maybe
much earlier in fact three days after
the assassination I guess one just has
to mention here
I guess the absurdity also accompanied
by the lack of questioning of the fact
that CIA director Dulles was essentially
a key player mm-hmm in he was of course
former CIA director at the time at the
time but he was the he was a more active
person probably even than Warren on the
Warren Commission why don't you just
talk a little bit about the role that
this former CIA director played in the
Warren Commission and what it ultimately
turned into well first of all I mean he
had been let's remember he may have been
essentially fired by Kennedy because of
the failure of the Bay of Pigs operation
which Dulles felt and allowed some of
his friends in the media to tell the
world through Fortune magazine
and really mean Kennedy's risk failure
not his failure because if only Kennedy
had gone and scented in the US Air Force
they could have saved the operation now
this is a debate which still goes on I
happen to be of the camp that says that
the Bay of Pigs was madness from start
to finish but a lot of people it's
particularly inside the CIA believed
that it should have succeeded and that
Kennedy was the culprit so there was a
feeling of betrayal that tainted the air
when Dulles went on the commission
Dallas also had a lot to hide he had to
hide the fact that the CIA had been he
also was supposed to be a loner
according to the official version but
the CIA had been sending out falsified
information about Oswald less than two
months before the assassination so the
CIA had a lot to hide and the Warren
Commission did the job of hiding it and
this was essentially Dallas's job
everyone concealed it concedes now even
the the Posner book for example
everybody concedes that the CIA was
hiding things from the Warren Commission
and usually it's put onto rather neutral
issues like the fact that there was a
KGB defector or alleged defector no
Zenko who had come over to say that the
KGB had nothing to do with oswald and
this was a great big thorny issue that
the Warren Commission decided not to
publish or there was the Amrish plots
the fact that Desmond Fitzgerald was
meeting or scheduled to my people he is
Desmond Fitzgerald was had at that
moment the head of the special Affairs
staff of the CIA who was going to meet
with a CIA operative agent or perhaps
double agent who was to to assassinate
Castro so there was the whole issue
very sensitive issue not conceded at all
at that time that the CIA had been
plotting the assassination of Castro at
times using organized crime figures like
John Roselli all of that was sensitive
but the most sensitive of all I think
was that the CIA had already in its own
files and documents created an
appearance of a contact between Oswald
and a man called valerie costa cough a
KGB agent in Mexico City who they had
already pre assassination rightly or
wrongly identified as a KGB expert on
assassinations so on the other matters
the CIA might conceivably have nothing
to do with the actual case but in as
much as Oswald was the designated Patsy
the fact that the CIA officials by
falsifying documents had already made
him look like a potential KGB assassin
this was a very very sensitive matter
and this is something that is really
just beginning to come out now with the
declassified documents although we've
know something of it for some years
so Dulles you might say is a key figure
on the Warren Commission but in my first
chapter and again later I go on to say
let's not focus on Dulles alone that
most of the people not all but a good
many of the people on the Commission had
a kind of privileged relationship to the
subject areas that we were going into
and I point to just to run was Hale
Boggs who was elected from Louisiana
with the help of marchello and Vaughn
cello was an organized crime leader in
in New Orleans and if an honest
investigation would have been led
through the Oswald family and through
Oswald's own activities in New Orleans
to look at the 544 Camp Street address
which he stamped on his literature which
would take us to this X FBI agent guy
banister who had simultaneously
excellent relations with the FBI to whom
he reported on Cuban exile activities
for which Oswald might have been
possibly gathering information for him
and also had a very intimate
relationship with the investigators and
lawyers protecting Carlos marchello
against deportation by Bobby Kennedy we
took him but I just want to stay with
Hale Boggs for a moment it was I took
careful note that when the Oliver Stone
film first came out ABC I guess Sunday
with David Brinkley whatever that
program is called
had on several journalists to give their
view of what how the film was and one of
those was Cokie Roberts and Cokie
Roberts went on to say it was garbage
junk an insult to the men on the Warren
Commission do you suppose this might
have been a subtle continuation of the
cover-up you mean because of who her
father was well her father was help on
yes right yes no I mean I because I'm
talking about a system here I want to
say right out that every time we focus
on individuals like this we mustn't
individualize the situation aha now
we've got the key to it it's the fact
that Cokie Roberts was the daughter of
Hale Boggs I'm saying that there is a
style of political activity in
Washington which unites all kinds of
people from the very top of the
overworld to the very bottom of
the underworld and that weed when we're
going through instances of this we have
to look at them as part of the system
without focusing on them uniquely the
sir I'd like to go quickly to yet
someone else in the Warren Commission a
lawyer called Albert Jenner who at the
same time was the chief counsel for
General Dynamics and you had just and
coming back to the coalition's that were
uniting against the Kennedys a lot of
dirt was beginning to surface in the
fall of 1963 about corrupt Texas
politicians including those people who
had secured through lobbying and then
profited from a very controversial
Pentagon a contract awarding the the
development of the so called tf-x
experimental fighter plane to a General
Dynamics plant in Fort Worth well that
scandal the it what we can call it the
tf-x scandal or the General Dynamics
scandal is certainly part of the deep
politics of the assassination and so it
becomes relevant that Albert Jenner who
was the counsel for General Dynamics was
then put on the staff of the Warren
Commission specifically it's been
alleged with the responsibility of
investigating conspiracies
he also through General Dynamics
represented one of the chief
shareholders the chief shareholder in
General Dynamics who had another number
of contacts with organized crime figures
in Chicago as did Jack Ruby and in fact
one of the people that Jack Ruby is
alleged to have had contact with in 1963
and
and another one whom he definitely
telephoned were subsequently represented
by this same Albert Jenner who was we
have to understand also had good links
with the overworld but at times could
represent the underworld as well so in
this way it isn't a matter of
individuals and the fact that's my big
quarrel with nearly all of the books
that have been written about the Kennedy
assassination whether they are saying
that Oswald did do it and acted alone
like Posner or whether they're saying
that all's will didn't do it and some
kind of external conspiracy did it my
book is not a conspiracy book in the
ordinary sense because a conspiracy is a
group of people you isolate from the
rest of the system the kind of alien bug
or virus or germ that is responsible for
something going wrong and I'm saying
that if we are looking for what was
wrong it was something that had been
wrong with America wrong before the
Kennedy assassination and has continued
to be wrong since down to the present
the fact that the FBI can cover-up for
murders for example is very glaring in
the case of the Kennedy assassination
but the FBI has been involved in the
number of murders of dissidents of Black
Panthers of AI m leaders and so on and
we have to look at this is where fo
Rosenberg comes in because she was I
would say in a sense murdered by the FBI
whether or not her husband was involved
with espionage
they FBI mounted a great campaign to get
her arrested and convicted and condemned
to death for the quite Machiavellian
reason that they thought that this would
persuade her husband to confess and
implicate himself in order to exonerate
her it didn't happen they both died
together and two of the FBI agents who
were up there at saying
saying watching the Rosenbergs die
having been deeply involved in this plot
let's call it that if you like against
Ethel Rosenberg we're deeply responsible
for the conspiratorial cover-up of the
Kennedy assassination and the
railroading of the Harvey Oswald and
this is through the FBI's Cohen tel
program it's through they know it's
through their counter espionage section
which in turn or counterintelligence
section which in turn became responsible
in 1955 for the Cohen tel programs which
is short for counterintelligence
programs which were authorized by
Eisenhower largely in response to the
terrible threat that had been portrayed
to him by the FBI using the Rosenbergs
as the chief example we're talking with
Peter Dale Scott his new book deep
politics and the death of JFK he is also
also among other books the author of
cocaine politics drugs armies and the
CIA in Central America and a little bit
later in this interview Peter Dale Scott
we're going to talk about the new
documents that have come out and the
information around Mexico
that sort of links I guess the Kennedy
assassination with drug trafficking and
with the work you've done in cocaine
politics well Chris my own book links
the Kennedy assassination to a drug
trafficking through Mexico and
particularly through the fact that the
Mexican Ministry of gomenasai own
government and within it a so-called de
accin federal de scurit died which we
have just transplanted and translated as
security Directorate which was in effect
the the Mexican CIA and to some extent
Mexican FBI as well in which enjoyed
excellent relations with the CIA station
in Mexico City this D
this was simultaneously an Intelligence
Agency that's the mexico's yes and and
they investigated they did a good deal
of the investigation of the case in
Mexico at the request of the Mexican CIA
so we have to be careful here that when
I say the Mexico City CIA station that's
the US government requested the DFS
through the government a CEO to arrest
and interrogate a witness Silvia Duran
she was put under terrible pressure to
admit that she herself was part of a
colossal KGB Cuban conspiracy to
assassinate the president now this DFS
was simultaneously an intelligence
agency investigating the case but it
certainly emerged by the 1970s as the
key link between the Mexican government
and drug trafficking in Mexico so we
have quite a lot about the DFS in our
cocaine politics book quoting another
book as saying that we're actually
quoting a government agent is saying one
of our US government agents are saying
that a DFS license was a license to
trafficking drugs in Mexico because when
the DEA went in there and tried to
arrest people whenever they got to a
high enough level the the person they
wanted to arrest would produce a little
card proving that they were an agent of
the DFS so I have a chapter that goes
into the evolution of drug tractor in
deep politics and the death of JFK which
looks at the evolution of the drug
traffic in Central America and in Mexico
in particular showing how the Gober
nation of many countries honduras
conspicuously became involved with drug
trafficking as a way of controlling
their own populations which is what the
CIA is all
was being interested in and how in
Mexico it led to a kind of government
toleration of a drug traffic at the
highest level a drug traffic with which
Jack Ruby was probably involved and in
just a minute I'm gonna we're gonna sort
of go zoom in to Dallas and we can talk
about what I think is incredibly
interesting the fact that Jack Ruby was
apparently working with the the local
police there as a narcotics informer and
we've got Oswald sort of I guess engaged
in one way or another in the drug trade
and I mean this is the sort of gets
fairly interesting I have to you know
Peter Dale Scott I you know I feel in
doing this interview that essentially
what I'm going to keep doing is asking
the same question again and again and
again which is to true so that we can
hone in on what you mean by deep
politics and the structural links that
make all these so-called independent
conspiracies could we talk about about
Central America because it's much
smaller okay buddy easier and then we
can bring it back okay well why don't
you state the thesis about drugs in
Central America why don't you lay that
out for us I would say that at least
since the depression in the 1930s when
the banana industry almost went belly-up
and both the banana companies were close
to bankruptcy a short of funds the flow
of money from the banana companies to
the various political parties in a
country like Honduras dried up and the
various political parties then turned to
drugs to finance themselves to supplant
the the income that had been lost from
the banana companies and then there are
signs that the Goulburn estion in Mexico
as well where of Court which is of
course not a banana republic that the
same thing was happening and in fact a
governess Eoin minister who was probably
would have become president had to
resign the
or the war about 1940 because he had be
accused of involvement in the drug
traffic so the deep politics there is
that although for a while you were
having elections of sorts in these
countries that the real sort of energy
behind the political system and the
governance of the country it continued
after you had strongmen in a strongman
in Honduras who suspended elections and
another strongman in Nicaragua was that
the drug traffic and it's gangs and its
money and its ability to corrupt people
was part of the governance system of
those small countries just as bringing
it back home now in a city like New
Orleans the gangs on the waterfront who
ever since some very messy events of the
1890s of being called mafia but should
be seen essentially as gangs on the
waterfront have been an integral part of
the political the deep political
processes of the city of New Orleans
which explains why Carlos marchello had
a lot of political influence in New
Orleans and could regularly elect and
reelect men who went to Congress in
Washington and in effect represented the
interests of the Mafia and would
introduce private bills to get
particular mafiosi pardoned and so on
and this deep political system in the
city of New Orleans to a greater or less
extent has been imitated in other cities
as well and if we come to the city of
Dallas
there is a lot of evidence that drug
traffickers had been able to corrupt
local judges so that if by any chance
any of them were arrested not to worry
the case would be assigned to a
particular judge and no no lasting
damage would be done now
the Warren Commission tried to present a
picture of Jack Ruby as a loner and in
order to do to do this they had to
ignore a one of the very few FBI files
on Jack Ruby that predate the Kennedy
assassination a fire of 1956 which was a
very good informant who continued to be
used successfully as an informant
telling the FBI that her husband who was
a drug trafficker was involved in a big
deal going through Mexico Mexican drug
trafficking and for some reason the okay
the go-ahead the green light on the deal
in Dallas had to be obtained from Jack
Ruby this indicates that Jack Ruby was
the man who had the kind of influence
with the Dallas police and with the
Dallas judiciary which would allow a
deal like this to happen this was not an
isolated report there were other reports
coming in one of which certainly
received by the FBI but possibly and
probably withheld from the Warren
Commission was from a former FBI agent
in Dallas now relocated to I think San
Diego in California but reporting very
early on that when he was in Dallas he
had the impression that Jack Ruby had a
very special influence with the Dallas
police a great many of these reports
came in the Warren Commission ignored
all of them
I wrote a book in 1976 you haven't
mentioned yet called crime and coverup
the CIA mafia and Dallas Watergate
connection in which I put very heavy
emphasis on this these allegations and
on the fact it's not disputed that there
had been made a major drug bust in
Dallas in 1947 or 48 and that Ruby had
been implicated in the case at least to
the extent that he was interrogated
about the case and he had been led off
because of an alibi that didn't check
out and was probably false and the fact
that they let him off so easily
indicated to me that he was a government
informant way back then on the federal
level to the Federal Bureau of Narcotics
and of course this suggests perhaps one
of the possible reasons why Jack would
be was capable of getting so close to us
warrant in nineteen because of his
influence with the because he was very
handy knew everybody there now the House
Committee went further than the wiring
Commission and they suggested it was
probably a conspiracy to get Ruby into
the basement they discovered that a door
was left unlocked and that the people
who were supposed to be guarding the
door had been reassigned shortly before
Ruby came in and killed Oswald so here
was a door that was both open and
unguarded and they added to this that
the man in charge of all this they
pointed the finger at a sergeant Patrick
Dean who interestingly knew quite well
Joseph Civello who was the head of
organized crime in in Dallas now I in my
book tell how I interviewed this
sergeant Dean and I find all of this
very significant but I find it falsely
presented by the House committee because
they're making it look like an external
conspiracy in
evolving sergeant Dean and maybe or
maybe not Joseph Civello well what I
found and it's it totally checks out is
Patrick Dean accepts his responsibility
for Reese reassigning the two policemen
at the door but he says my superiors
told me to do that and if you go back
and look at the Warren Commission volume
on police affidavits it's very clear
that Dean was not acting on his own and
if there's something conspiratorial here
it's not one bad policeman it is the
Dallas Police growing up almost to the
very top and furthermore that the reason
he knew Civello was because he had been
a narcotics detective and Joe Civello
was a narcotics informant you understand
that being a narcotics informant usually
means that you have a lot of power
because you're the man who decides that
the police should arrest a and not
arrest B and that the police will allow
B to go on trafficking as long as they
can arrest a from time to time so that
everybody's happy the police are making
their arrests and B is continuing his
drug trafficking and unfortunately this
has been the case in more than one
American city it means that in a sense
law enforcement and there's what I call
a symbiosis between law enforcement and
crime law enforcement needs to arrest
people and organized criminals who are
almost by definition the ones who are
tolerated by law enforcement provide the
people to be arrested and meanwhile
organized crime wants to go on
trafficking and the law enforcement
people tolerate this this symbiosis
between law enforcement and organized
crime which becomes much more activist
overseas where the CIA and the drug
trafficking criminals are on the same
team to either corrupt or subvert or
from time to time overthrow foreign
governments you get the same symbiosis
overseas as you do domestically and Jack
Ruby seems to have been an example of
this symbiosis in Dallas but on a
transnational level that is to say twice
at least and probably recurringly he was
involved with drug deals that went to
Mexico and which of the Mexico end were
represented by the DFS which
investigated the assassination of
President Kennedy and came up with
evidence of a conspiracy which was
enough for Hoover and Johnson and the
wiring Commission to decide that they
would go with Oswald is the lone
assassin
Peter del Scott perhaps this would be a
good time since we've talked about the
way in which the Dallas Police
Department may have been compromised by
its relationship with Jack Ruby and in
the symbiosis you described with
organized crime perhaps it would be good
just to spend a few minutes talking
about the way in which the FBI and the
CIA acted rather strangely or what might
be of surprise in terms of the way they
acted after the assassination well in
the case of the CIA we really have to
talk about what's surprising about how
they acted before the assassination and
when I come my first chapter that looks
before I read a look at the crime I look
at the cover-up and before I look at the
cover-up I look at the fact that the CIA
station in Mexico City
it was churning out documents well I say
churning out but there are two key ones
one dated October 8th 1963 which arrived
in Washington on October 9th which said
that it reported from a reliable source
which meant electronic surveillance they
had overheard a conversation in which
and they used language very carefully a
man
identified himself as Lee Oswald and
referred to a conversation which he had
had with caustic of the caustic of being
I've mentioned him before a council in
the Soviet consulate who was certainly a
KGB agent and according to certain
people within the CIA at that time an
assassination specialist now there's a
great deal of cover-up about all of this
but what is very glaring is that they
attach to this a description of a man
who certainly was not Oswald and who has
been known since two assassination buffs
as the mystery man in Mexico City I
doubt that the mystery man is very
important in this the fact that the CIA
station was generating intelligence that
made it appear that somebody called
somebody who identified himself as
Oswald was linked to as KGB
assassinations expert this was important
because in the post assassination period
you now had two schools of thought
inside the CIA as one school of thought
which was clearly centered in the
counterintelligence part headed by James
Angleton which believed that we had a
conspiracy here and continued to find
more and more evidence of it and to
support this evidence versus other
people in the CIA very strongly backed
by virtually all of the FBI saying no we
know that Oswald acted alone most
Americans are not aware that there was
an intelligence war going on inside the
American government in Washington under
Johnson as to whether they were going to
come down on the side of conspiracy or
come down on the side of Oswald acted
alone and it's important to distinguish
that there were some people who really
come down on the side of a KGB
conspiracy including Angleton and there
were other people who really did not
want to have World War three but did
want to come down heavily for a cuban
conspiracy so that we could then go in
and take out fidel castro and this
second camp were not finally silenced
until sometime late in december so that
there are many people who might have
found themselves somewhat on the side of
the odds world acted alone camp as being
preferable to my version of the story
which is that elements in the within the
CIA were collaborating with our other
elements outside the CIA to lay the they
create a scene for a successful
assassination which could not be tracked
because of the amount of embarrassing
material that was already planted in
government files now the CIA certainly
had elements within it which were lying
you had elements within the CIA station
in mexico city who were lying to
headquarters about oswald before the
assassination who continued to lie after
the assassination because the key thing
that could have cleared this all up was
that there were they probably took
photographs of this man who identified
himself as oswald and they probably had
a tape of his voice and this is a this
we could have a whole broadcast on this
technical subject suffice it to say that
they almost certainly had photographs
and a tape of this man identifying
himself as oswald after the
assassination that FBI officials we have
an FBI memo that says that FBI officers
agents in dallas who knew Oswald and had
heard his voice listened to the tape and
determined it was
of Oswald and ever since people have
tried to make light of that so well was
just a mistake it was someone else it
wasn't Oswald suppressing the very
relevant fact that this man had
identified himself as Oz won't read this
case closed book that can't he cannot
deal with this crucial fact here
somebody had identified himself as
Oswalt and he almost certainly was not
Oswald
there was a conspiracy to implicate
Oswald in the assassination that
involved people within the Mexico City
CIA station who were lying in a way to
make all of this seem much more
plausible than it really was and who
created a memo for example as I say in
my book we have determined that I better
read this it's page 41 this officer
determined that Oswald had talked with
caustic ah've I make a small mistake
there because I assumed that this
officer was a man and now from the
recently Declassified Lopez report from
that year we realized that this person
was not a man but a woman and she was
married to a man I got the husband and
wife confused here but the Lopez report
enormous ly in larges the evidence that
somebody was impersonating Oswald
probably a short aging blonde I didn't
make too much of the blonde thing
because I thought that whereas console
as Queen the Cuban embassy called him a
blonde I thought that Sylvia Duran who
spent the most time with Oswald didn't
what we now know from the duran from the
lopez report is that Duran kept saying
over and over back then in November 63
that she had talked to a blonde Oswald
of course was brown haired at least the
Oswald who was killed in Dallas was
brown haired so it looks like there was
an imposter there
and that wouldn't tell us much by itself
but that the idea of a conspiracy was
being improved by false memoranda from
within the Mexico City CIA station
reinforced by very vigorous efforts from
a very drug tainted element of the
Mexican government to the DFS this
begins to give us an outline of where
the such a conspiracy might have been
now in my book I'm not trying to solve
the case but I'm content to bring the
case back to what I call the deep
political facts of Mexico and the United
States the fact that the drug traffic is
part of the governmental system in both
Mexico and turn it down a bit but also
in to a certain extent in Dallas as well
we're back with Peter Dale Scott the
Booker's deep politics and the death of
JFK and we're now in Dallas and we want
to talk about the behavior of some of
the national security agencies the FBI
the CIA military intelligence could you
talk give us a some clue as to what they
were doing and why we might want to
question it well we know least
unfortunately about military
intelligence they're the agency that
destroyed their assassination files
despite a request to keep them all going
we know that they had they sent out
cables very quickly after the murder
they probably established the link
between Oswald and Adele which led him
being char to his being charged for the
murder they also from Texas sent a very
provocative cable directly to a strike
force in Florida that was poised to
attack Cuba making it look as if Oswald
was definitely
a communist agent in the killing we can
say much much more about the FBI and the
CIA but before I do again I have to get
away from the idea of compartmentalizing
them some of the key people in CIA were
formerly FBI agents including for
example the head of the Mexican city CIA
station a man called Wynn Scott who I
hasten to say is not a relative as far
as I know former had worked with a an
FBI so-called special intelligence
service during the war which was then
forcibly incorporated into what became
the CIA and I think Hoover all along had
penetrated the CIA through these former
sis agency I don't know about Scott in
particular but that was the story that a
lot of them William Harvey is another
key one here
who ostensibly got angry at Hoover and
came over and joined the CIA but may
well have been working for Hoover even
inside the CIA and then finally William
Sullivan who is in charge of
counterintelligence inside the FBI had
formerly being Wynn Scouts boss in the
SIS so there is a kind of
interpenetration between FBI and CIA
here that that could be very relevant to
what happened because it looks very much
as as if one element inside each agency
was operating independently of the rest
in the CIA this looks like the
counterintelligence branch who were buy
a bit of Machiavellian conniving they
got themselves the job of representing
the CIA to the Warren Commission and
they continued to believe in a
conspiracy
apparently versus the FBI who were gung
ho for Oswell did it alone from the very
beginning there is an AP story on
November 25th saying that Hoover had
already decided that the FBI had already
decided that it was Lee Harvey Oswald
and that he acted alone and this of
course is what totally constrained the
Warren Commission as they knew this is
what they chiefly talked about in their
first executive session the fact was
that the case had already been resolved
by the FBI as far as I'm concerned one
is no more or no less benign than the
other and it may have been that the true
assassins may have been those hiding
behind the zil did it alone thing and
that the people who were saying though
it was a KGB conspiracy were less clued
into what really happened all we can say
for a certainty is that there is a great
deal of suspect post assassination
behavior the part that's easiest for me
to talk about is in the CIA now because
of this Declassified Lopez report but in
my book I talk about how the people who
handled the case within the
counterintelligence section of FBI
although they were apparently secretly
reprimanded at the time this reprimand
can't have meant very much because they
were simultaneously entrusted with
continuing to investigate the case
there's a great continuity between the
FBI people who handled it before the
case got reprimanded and then were
designated to handle it after the
assassination some of whom like William
Sullivan went on to very high posts
within the FBI I do think it's very
striking that these same people were the
people who in the 60s and 70s were
running the Co Intel pros
I looked at a lot of the COINTELPRO
documents when they were Declassified it
was very striking to me that the files
were reasonably complete on all kinds of
organizations particularly the the the
Socialist Workers Party or the
Trotskyites but not the fair play for
Cuba committee and it remains quite
possible that Oswald himself was part of
a COINTELPRO against the fair play for
Cuba committee because he got he
involved himself with them not
vice-versa he pretended to be doing
things on behalf of them in New Orleans
when in fact he was whether or not he
was a loner we don't know but the links
that we know of between Oswald and the
fair play for Cuba committee are
absolutely minimal and one of the things
that the FBI and the CIA both certainly
did was cover-up
Oswald's links to 5:44 Camp Street where
you had a man whom the CIA tell us was
reporting regularly to the FBI on
COINTELPRO type activities now this is
where deep politics come in because that
man guy Bannister there's been a lot of
debate between those who say he's FBI
and those or Oh an EIN Office of Naval
Intelligence versus those who say no no
he's mafia because he knew ray Gill who
is much other lawyer a deep political
analysis isn't going to make too much
out of this sort of thing because the
fact is you had a man here in New
Orleans which was well represented by
guy Bannister in which organized crime
and law enforcement are doing each
other's other failures so we it would be
wrong to overly cop art mentalize here
so you might say that the deep political
components of this case were filtered
out by both
bi NCIA and strikingly by those people
who had the strongest deep political
connections themselves all right we are
running out of time we have a few more
minutes I want to ask essentially the
same question that I asked when we
started this interview and since you are
also a noted poet and have written your
share of poetry let me come to this
question by quoting a poem by former the
late Muriel Rukeyser she wrote a poem
called Islands and the first line of
that poem goes all for God's sake they
are connected underneath bathe so let me
ask you the question this way now what
do what what does Ethel Rosenberg's
death the McCarthy era the killing of
Kennedy's plural Watergate and Contra
gate what do they have in common
institutionally economically in terms of
their relationship with the economy of
the country and in terms of the players
you talked earlier about Frank Sturgis
being a carryover there are other
players who keep showing up again and
again and these different operations
that we might be killed well certainly
inside the government there are great
many I mean angleton for example
obviously was mistrusted the government
he was working for he believed that
Averell Harriman who was Kennedy's
designated ambassador deal both in in in
trouble areas but a very important man
more important than his nominal post
Anglophone believed he was a KGB agent
and then when Nick Nixon was president
of the United States Angleton believed
that Henry Kissinger was a KGB agent and
the belief that Kissinger was a KGB
agent is part of the underpinnings of
Watergate generally what I point out is
that in crisis after crisis every decade
we have seen
American politics momentarily contorted
by an event the McCarthy hearings for
example or the Kennedy assassination
Watergate contra gate what is consistent
all the way through even forcing the
point to iran-contra which had many
other factors you know is that you had
presidents at a moment that they were
contemplating they talked with the
Soviet Union and that did not serve the
purpose of the various agencies who had
built themselves up in terms of fighting
and containing the Cold War this is as
true of the FBI as anyone else
and something happened to sustain the
the Cold War the the in effect the US
government was purged in the early 50s
of all those people who threatened to
allowed a taunt to happen especially
after Stalin died
the threat of a phased withdrawal from
Vietnam and also normalization with Cuba
which was happening at the same time
were offset by the president by that by
the assassination of the President Nixon
had just been to Moscow in signed the
salt wine agreements a month before
these people went into the Democratic
National Committee and ultimately
castrated him as a president and forced
his his resignation so that we see a
system which from time to time
threatened to realign itself away from
the determined prosecution of the Cold
War and all of these events apparently
accidental and unrelated but which under
the surface have a remarkable continuity
of personnel i point out one of
the anyway they first of all the point
is that the system adjusted itself in
all four cases by purging people by the
assassination of a president in a plot
which must have involved some people
within the government although not
probably not confined to the government
and we've talked very little about
corporate involvement here but I do talk
about it well we'll say two minutes and
two minutes we've got two minutes left
we might as well and on the best part
well I don't know what is the best part
the worst part let me end on an act of
faith I mean I think what the sort of
thing I'm talking about here would say
oh yeah I knew the system stank anyway
it just shows that you can never solve
something like an assassination that is
not the message of this book I say all
the way through that we live in a partly
open society it's open enough for us to
be able to become more conscious of the
deep political factors that are at work
this recent declassification of over a
hundred seven ninety thousand pages from
the CIA alone it makes us aware that
there's a hundred and seventy thousand
pages they didn't declassify but it will
increase the pressure to get them
Declassified as well and I argue that
even if we don't get to the whole truth
and working to get more of the truth
we'll work to make our society a little
more open and this in turn will mean
that the current arrows and the dirty
tricks against individuals and
particularly against the kind of people
who listen to KPFA are robbed of their
power just as we saw in the wake of
Watergate a kind of new set of rules to
limit and restrict the activities of
both the FBI and the CIA
I want to thank you Peter Dale Scott for
joining us a new book deep politics and
the death of JFK it's put out by the
University of California and it's a big
thick book it's over
100 pages we have only and I do not kid
you've scratched barely scratched the
service surface of this a very good work
of research and analysis thank you very
much Peter Dale Scott thank you